docs(website): add Use Cases section with Light Wallets, Bridges; add Case Studies section with Daedalus (#3200)
input-output-hk/mithril: docs/website/root/use-cases/bridges.mdx

### How it fits into existing bridge architectures

Most bridges have an off-chain component — relayers, validators, or watchers — that observes events on the source chain and submits attestations to the destination chain. Mithril does not replace this component. It strengthens it: instead of trusting whatever endpoint the relayer happens to query, the relayer verifies a Mithril proof against the current certificate chain before treating a Cardano transaction as certified.

This preserves the existing architecture while removing the implicit trust placed in centralized infrastructure. For bridge designs that already rely on a multi-signature or threshold scheme among relayers, Mithril provides an additional, independent check rooted in Cardano's stake distribution — making collusion among relayers insufficient to forge a transfer if proofs are verified.

### Integration

> Bridge relayers, validators, and watchers typically run as server-side services, so most bridge teams will integrate via the [Rust client library](https://crates.io/crates/mithril-client) or the [Mithril client CLI](https://mithril.network/doc/manual/develop/nodes/mithril-client). The library is the most direct path for native services that want to embed proof verification in their existing process; the CLI is a good fit for teams that prefer to shell out from a relayer written in another language.

Reviewer: Can you add a mention to this example of integration of the Rust library: https://github.com/input-output-hk/mithril/tree/main/examples/client-cardano-transaction?

Author: Added a mention at the end of the paragraph

---
id: bridges
title: Bridges
sidebar_label: Bridges
---

> # Using Mithril for bridges

Reviewer: This can also be applied to other layer 2 solutions I guess.

Author: Not sure how I want to approach this, I'd probably need to make some subtle changes in the body of the document as well to be more inclusive of layer 2's. I'm inclined toward leaning mention of it out given the # of potential cardano L2s is probably a lot less than prospective bridges

Mithril offers a fourth option: cryptographic proof that a Cardano transaction was included, backed by a stake-weighted quorum of SPOs, that the bridge can verify independently — without trusting a third party, and without operating a full node.

:::info

Before integrating, review the [Protocol security](/mithril/advanced/mithril-protocol/security) page to understand the protocol's guarantees.

:::

### What Mithril provides for bridges

When a user locks assets on Cardano, the bridge needs to confirm that the lock transaction was included on-chain before authorizing the corresponding action on the destination chain. With Mithril, the bridge can verify this using a Merkle proof linked to a certificate signed by a stake-weighted quorum of SPOs. The proof can be checked locally, without trusting the source of the data.

> This changes the bridge's security posture. The integrity of cross-chain transfers no longer depends on the honesty of any single data provider or on the operational security of any one node. A compromised API, a misconfigured indexer, or a hostile relayer cannot produce a valid Mithril proof — and a bridge that verifies proofs will reject anything that fails verification.

Reviewer: This part is not very clear: "and a bridge that verifies proofs will reject anything that fails verification."

Author: I updated this to be more clear hopefully, let me know if the update needs revision

Crucially, the bridge gets this assurance from a lightweight client. The proof is fetched and verified on demand, with no full Cardano node to sync, store, or operate. For bridge teams, that means the most secure verification path is also the cheapest one — there is no longer a trade-off between trust assumptions and infrastructure overhead.

### How it fits into existing bridge architectures

> Most bridges have an off-chain component — relayers, validators, or watchers — that observes events on the source chain and submits attestations to the destination chain. Mithril does not replace this component. It strengthens it: instead of trusting whatever endpoint the relayer happens to query, the relayer verifies a Mithril proof against the current certificate chain before treating a Cardano transaction as final.

Reviewer: "final": it'd be better to say "certified".

This preserves the existing architecture while removing the implicit trust placed in centralized infrastructure. For bridge designs that already rely on a multi-signature or threshold scheme among relayers, Mithril provides an additional, independent check rooted in Cardano's stake distribution — making collusion among relayers insufficient to forge a transfer if proofs are verified.

### Integration

The easiest path for most bridge teams to integrate is using the official WASM package:

```bash
npm install @mithril-dev/mithril-client-wasm
```

> It works in Node.js and in the browser, making it suitable for relayers, monitoring services, and validator software. All major browsers are supported — see the [Browser Compatibility](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@mithril-dev/mithril-client-wasm#browser-compatibility) section of the npm package for details. A [Rust crate](https://crates.io/crates/mithril-client) is also available for native services.

Reviewer: This should primarily be the [Rust client library](https://mithril.network/doc/manual/develop/nodes/mithril-client-library) or the [Client CLI](https://mithril.network/doc/manual/develop/nodes/mithril-client).

Author: I updated this in one of my latest commits

The core flow is straightforward:

1. Observe the lock or burn transaction on Cardano

> 2. Query the Mithril aggregator for a transaction proof once the tx hash is known

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Query the Mithril aggregator for a transaction proof of membership once the transation hash is known
```

3. Verify the proof against the current Mithril certificate chain

> 4. Treat the transaction as final and authorize the corresponding action on the destination chain.

Reviewer: Finality is a bit more complex:
- with the [legacy certification](https://mithril.network/doc/mithril/advanced/mithril-certification/cardano-transactions) the transcactions are considered very likely final after `100` blocks. This may be enough for small transactions but not for bigger ones
- with the [upcoming certification](https://mithril.network/doc/mithril/advanced/mithril-certification/cardano-blocks-and-transactions), the criterion to determine if a transaction is considered final is left to the end user (who can use the depth from the tip of the chain at snapshot time to make a choice). 

This also applies to the next paragraph.

Author: I updated this as well. I like the new language a lot, I think it's much more clear for a bridge provider. Let me know if I need to make any additional changes.

Author: side note, I think we should update the titles of these certification pages so the distinction is more clear. also mentioning something about when the change in certification will happen would be useful. I can address this in a separate issue.

    color: "white",
    height: "40px",
    padding: "0 20px",
    borderRadius: "8px",
    textDecoration: "none",
    fontWeight: "bold",
    marginTop: "4px",
    marginBottom: "1rem",
    lineHeight: "40px", // fixes vertical alignment
  }}
>
  <svg
    xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"
    viewBox="0 0 127.14 96.36"
    width="20"
    height="20"
    fill="white"
    style={{ display: "block", flexShrink: 0 }}
  >
    <path d="M107.7,8.07A105.15,105.15,0,0,0,81.47,0a72.06,72.06,0,0,0-3.36,6.83A97.68,97.68,0,0,0,49,6.83,72.37,72.37,0,0,0,45.64,0,105.89,105.89,0,0,0,19.39,8.09C2.79,32.65-1.71,56.6.54,80.21h0A105.73,105.73,0,0,0,32.71,96.36,77.7,77.7,0,0,0,39.6,85.25a68.42,68.42,0,0,1-10.85-5.18c.91-.66,1.8-1.34,2.66-2a75.57,75.57,0,0,0,64.32,0c.87.71,1.76,1.39,2.66,2a68.68,68.68,0,0,1-10.87,5.19,77,77,0,0,0,6.89,11.1A105.25,105.25,0,0,0,126.6,80.22h0C129.24,52.84,122.09,29.11,107.7,8.07ZM42.45,65.69C36.18,65.69,31,60,31,53s5-12.74,11.43-12.74S54,46,53.89,53,48.84,65.69,42.45,65.69Zm42.24,0C78.41,65.69,73.25,60,73.25,53s5-12.74,11.44-12.74S96.23,46,96.12,53,91.08,65.69,84.69,65.69Z" />
  </svg>
  <span>#ask-mithril</span>
</a>

## For bridge users

> When a bridge supports Mithril, cross-chain transfers from Cardano are more secure. Whether you interact with the bridge directly, or through a wallet or aggregator that abstracts the swap behind a simpler interface, the underlying assertion is the same: that your Cardano transaction was actually included on-chain before the bridge took action on the other side.

Reviewer: The term aggregator is ambiguous here.

Author: By aggregator I meant something like Jumper / Li.Fi that is aggregating different routes across various exchanges, bridges, etc. I will update the language
